Learn to love learning. The more you can learn, the more you can do. Try to learn lessons from other people, but if you really feel the need to make your own mistakes, at least research what happened to people who tried a similar thing. 
Do your homework first. Treat learning like it's your job, because no matter what job you do, you will not keep it if you can't keep up.

Grow up fast!

Psychology, philosophy, 

Family:
Enmeshment: Detect it
You may find that boundary problems have lead to a lot of the stress you may be currently experiencing.
Family boundary problems may hinder you from growing up, or hinder you from moving on from the places where you didn't get to be a child.

Religion:
Do not impose your kind of discipline on others.
Makes this a difficult position for me because it's exactly what I'm doing here, and I should not.

Growing up:
Discipline:
Grow up asap.
Pursue disclipline, not happiness, not fun. Discipline creates character.
Discipline your words to use them carefully.
Break unhealhty attachments
Complacency makes you think you are better than you are.
I thought I was a good person.
A lot of my actions were based on fear.
Being reactive.
Fear is a poor motivator.
You can't do your best work if you feel constantly overwhelmed.
Fear will probably lead to burnout.
Fight or flight for your own hide can't work in a marriage.
Fear will not get you to the kind of heights that love can.
Instead of focusing on what scares you, focus on how much you love that person, and how strong that love is.
Love will make you strong.
Discipline should not be a punishment, it is a compass.
Diligence:
Finish chores first.
Adult life is energy-intensive, expensive, emotionally taxing, hard, sometimes isolating (if you don't have enough friends also in the grind), regimented, often leaves no time for games, but it's worth it!
Influence:
If you feel you are being influenced, before you decide something big, think about internal (only using ideas from yourself) and external factors (what you perceive other people say or want) regarding that decision. 

Be a good husband:
Character: be a thoughtful husband, pursue your wife, be spontaneous, integrity, responsibility, passionate, dependable, disciplined, mature, strength, work hard, be astute, communicate, schedule, plan in advance, keep healthy habits, 
be a good provider, be smart where you put your resources.

Study psychology:
Know thyself!
Be a good man:
Men are sensitive. If it bothers you to hear that you are sensitive, then you've proven it to be true.
The more you think about it, the more you will see ways that you are sensitive.
Men get hurt a lot.
When a man is hurt, it's nobody's responsibility to build him up again.
Too often, men put women in the role of being a mother or a cheerleader when they shouldn't have to be.
As a guy, you might, or we might collectively try to build each other up more often and normalize men uplifting each other with positivity in healthy friendships.
Love:
Love might make you do stupid things
So, make sure the person respects you.
If that person doesn't respect you, it will end up badly, and if you don't care and stay with someone who doesn't respect you, they never will, you'll be unhappy, and you won't even make that person be happy anyway.
Character change:
Sometimes you need to hit rock bottom to change.
Sometimes it's not about a spiritual battle of good and evil.
The need may have to be great enough for it to finally click. 
When your old way of life has almost completely ruined you, that might be the time that true change can happen.
If it comes down to survival, you will change.

Marriage:
You don't even know love before marriage --or until you've burned the ships.
The thing about love is, it gets deeper and deeper the longer you go into it with someone.
Take on responsibility
Do the chores and seek more
Integrity:
Marriage is no place for privacy.
Act like everyone is watching --especially your wife.
Honesty:
Honesty is non-negotiable in a marriage.
White lies are full lies and the worst of humanity.
Withholding information is lying.
When you delay the truth, you're lying too.
A lie pulls someone high up by a flimsy string.
The shoe eventually drops on lies and bad patters/misdeeds.
The longer you go without telling the truth, the higher that rope pulls them up.
The truth must be told immediately --even if it never feels like the right time, it must be told.
Feelings will be hurt, but the longer it goes on, the higher the potential hurt will be.
Would you rather fall from 20 feet or from 1000 feet?
--lifting someone higher and higher just to drop them.
Hurts:
Hurts take a long time to heal.
Nothing ever really heals fully, but each time it doesn't is an opportunity to press in and be consistent.
Insist on being the person that you need to be, even when it looks or feels like you can't.
Recovering from mistakes:
Don't think that nothing you do is right.
Even bad experiences can forge good ones.
You are not the same, bad person you were.
Positivity:
Can you allow yourself to be positive, hopeful, not see yourself as a failure, and be a success in spite of everything anyway?
You can choose positivity anyway.
Nobody deserves imposter syndrome.
If other people have done what you want to do, you can too.
So, stop getting in your own way.
You are made of good stuff.
Don't internalize punishment.
Fear of the mistake is worse than the mistake itself.

Airheads and fortresses:
To the fortresses, you can let yourself be unguarded when it comes to love, if you want to move forward.
To the airheads, good houses have fences, and if you care to protect those you love, you will be mindful and aware regarding them.

The Black Cat:
Maybe you're more of a dog person, but you should really have both sides. If you don't like cats or understand cats, you should know that they are precious little angel babies.
On the other end of the spectrum is the golden retriever. I'll mention the golden retriever later.
Travel:
If you want travel to just happen to you, it won't. Get serious about travel.
Money:
If you don't master it, money will slip from your hands like sand.
Practice good accounting.

Celebrate your victories: when you planned something that worked out, you worked hard for something that you achieved, success at your job, learning something, doing something you were afraid of, even doing your civic duty.

